---
title: "BaseRequest Class"
domain: apex-reference
topic: baserequest-class
apiVersion: 67.0
release: summer-26-v67
docType: api-reference
lastCollected: 2026-03-12T05:14:21.863Z
estimatedTokens: 389
namespace: CommercePayments
keywords: [BaseRequest, extended, request, classes., AdditionalData, IdempotencyKey]
---

# BaseRequest Class

> BaseRequest is extended by all
      the request classes.

**Namespace:** `CommercePayments`

# BaseRequest Class

BaseRequest is extended by all the request classes.

## Namespace

[CommercePayments](atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_namespace_commercepayments.htm "Use the CommercePayments namespace to provide a safe and customizable platform for managing customer payments and refunds.")

-   **[BaseRequest Methods](atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_class_commercepayments_BaseRequest.htm#apex_System_BaseRequest_methods)**


## BaseRequest Methods

The following are methods for BaseRequest.

-   **[BaseRequest(AdditionalData, IdempotencyKey)](atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_class_commercepayments_BaseRequest.htm#apex_System_BaseRequest_BaseRequest)**
    Used for testing.

### BaseRequest(AdditionalData, IdempotencyKey)

Used for testing.

#### Signature

global Void BaseRequest(String AdditionalData, Map<String, String\> IdempotencyKey)

#### Parameters

AdditionalData

Type: [String](atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_methods_system_string.htm#apex_methods_system_string "Contains methods for the String primitive data type.")

Contains additional data that may be required for a payment request. The additionalData object consists of key-value pairs. You can retrieve the additionalData object from the request object: Map<String, String> additionalData=request.additionalData

IdempotencyKey

Type: Map<String, String>

Unique value that's generated by a client and sent to the server in the request. The server stores the value and uses the it to keep track of the request status.

#### Return Value

Type: Void

## Related Topics

- CommercePayments (atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_namespace_commercepayments.htm)
- BaseRequest Methods (atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_class_commercepayments_BaseRequest.htm)
- BaseRequest(AdditionalData, IdempotencyKey) (atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_class_commercepayments_BaseRequest.htm)
- String (atlas.en-us.apexref.meta/apexref/apex_methods_system_string.htm)
