---
title: "Decision Explainer Metadata API Types"
domain: omnistudio
topic: decision-explainer-metadata-api-types
apiVersion: 67.0
release: summer-26-v67
docType: developer-guide
lastCollected: 2026-03-12T05:14:50.962Z
estimatedTokens: 169
keywords: [Decision, Explainer, Metadata, API, Types, enables, access, types, feature, settings, customize, user, interface.]
---

# Decision Explainer Metadata API Types

> Metadata API enables you to access some types and feature settings that you can
    customize in the user interface.

# Decision Explainer Metadata API Types

Metadata API enables you to access some types and feature settings that you can customize in the user interface.

For more information about Metadata API and to find a complete reference of existing metadata types, see [Metadata API Developer Guide](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/atlas.en-us.260.0.api_meta.meta/api_meta/meta_intro.htm "HTML (New Window)").

-   **[ApplicationSubtypeDefinition](atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_applicationsubtypedefinition.htm)**
    Represents a subtype of an application. Create application subtype definitions to define the types of applications used in your Decision Explainer entities.
-   **[BusinessProcessTypeDefinition](atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_businessprocesstypedefinition.htm)**
    Represents the definition of the business process type within an application domain.
-   **[ExplainabilityActionDefinition](atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_explainabilityactiondefinition.htm)**
    Represents the definition of the explainability action log that is generated by the associated application's action.
-   **[ExplainabilityActionVersion](atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_explainabilityactionversion.htm)**
    Represents the explainability action version of the explainability action log that is generated by the associated application's action.

## Related Topics

- ExplainabilityMsgTemplate (atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_explainabilitymsgtemplate.htm)
- ApplicationSubtypeDefinition (atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_applicationsubtypedefinition.htm)
- BusinessProcessTypeDefinition (atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_businessprocesstypedefinition.htm)
- ExplainabilityActionDefinition (atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_explainabilityactiondefinition.htm)
- ExplainabilityActionVersion (atlas.en-us.industries_reference.meta/industries_reference/meta_explainabilityactionversion.htm)
