---
title: "Unescaped Output and Formulas in Visualforce Pages"
domain: apex-guide
topic: unescaped-output-and-formulas-in-visualforce-pages
apiVersion: 67.0
release: summer-26-v67
docType: developer-guide
lastCollected: 2026-03-12T09:33:34.793Z
estimatedTokens: 1044
keywords: [Unescaped, Output, Formulas, Visualforce, Pages, components, escape, attribute, including, outside, component, unfiltered, validated, security, especially]
---

# Unescaped Output and Formulas in Visualforce Pages

> When using components that have set the escape
    attribute to false, or when including formulas outside of a Visualforce component, output is
    unfiltered and must be validated for security. This is especially important when using formula
    expressions.

# Unescaped Output and Formulas in Visualforce Pages

When using components that have set the escape attribute to false, or when including formulas outside of a Visualforce component, output is unfiltered and must be validated for security. This is especially important when using formula expressions.

Formula expressions can be function calls or include information about platform objects, a user's environment, system environment, and the request environment. It’s important to be aware that the output that’s generated by expressions isn’t escaped during rendering. Since expressions are rendered on the server, it’s not possible to escape rendered data on the client using JavaScript or other client-side technology. This can lead to potentially dangerous situations if the formula expression references non-system data (that is, potentially hostile or editable data) and the expression itself is not wrapped in a function to escape the output during rendering.

A common vulnerability is created by rerendering user input on a page. For example,

```

```

The unescaped {!myTextField} results in a cross-site scripting vulnerability. For example, if the user enters :

```

```

and clicks **Update It**, the JavaScript is executed. In this case, an alert dialog is displayed, but more malicious uses could be designed.

There are several functions that you can use for escaping potentially insecure strings.

HTMLENCODE

Encodes text and merge field values for use in HTML by replacing characters that are reserved in HTML, such as the greater-than sign (>), with HTML entity equivalents, such as &gt;.

JSENCODE

Encodes text and merge field values for use in JavaScript by inserting escape characters, such as a backslash (\\), before unsafe JavaScript characters, such as the apostrophe (').

JSINHTMLENCODE

Encodes text and merge field values for use in JavaScript inside HTML tags by replacing characters that are reserved in HTML with HTML entity equivalents and inserting escape characters before unsafe JavaScript characters. JSINHTMLENCODE(someValue) is a convenience function that is equivalent to JSENCODE(HTMLENCODE((someValue)). That is, JSINHTMLENCODE first encodes someValue with HTMLENCODE, and then encodes the result with JSENCODE.

URLENCODE

Encodes text and merge field values for use in URLs by replacing characters that are illegal in URLs, such as blank spaces, with the code that represent those characters as defined in RFC 3986, Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax. For example, blank spaces are replaced with %20, and exclamation points are replaced with %21.

To use HTMLENCODE to secure the previous example, change the <apex:outputText\> to the following:

```

```

If a user enters <script\>alert('xss') and clicks **Update It**, the JavaScript is not be executed. Instead, the string is encoded and the page displays Value of myTextField is <script\>alert('xss').

Depending on the placement of the tag and usage of the data, both the characters needing escaping as well as their escaped counterparts may vary. For instance, this statement, which copies a Visualforce request parameter into a JavaScript variable:

```

```

requires that any double quote characters in the request parameter be escaped with the URL encoded equivalent of %22 instead of the HTML escaped ". Otherwise, the request:

```

```

results in:

```

```

When the page loads the JavaScript executes, and the alert is displayed.

In this case, to prevent JavaScript from being executed, use the JSENCODE function. For example

```

```

Formula tags can also be used to include platform object data. Although the data is taken directly from the user's organization, it must still be escaped before use to prevent users from executing code in the context of other users (potentially those with higher privilege levels). While these types of attacks must be performed by users within the same organization, they undermine the organization's user roles and reduce the integrity of auditing records. Additionally, many organizations contain data which has been imported from external sources and might not have been screened for malicious content.

## Code Examples

```
<apex:page standardController="Account">
  <apex:form>
    <apex:commandButton rerender="outputIt" value="Update It"/>
    <apex:inputText value="{!myTextField}"/>
  </apex:form>

  <apex:outputPanel id="outputIt"> 
    Value of myTextField is <apex:outputText value="{!myTextField}" escape="false"/>
  </apex:outputPanel>    
</apex:page>
```

```
<script>alert('xss')
```

```
<apex:outputText value=" {!HTMLENCODE(myTextField)}" escape="false"/>
```

```
<script>var ret = "{!$CurrentPage.parameters.retURL}";</script>
```

```
https://example.com/demo/redirect.html?retURL=%22foo%22%3Balert('xss')%3B%2F%2F
```
