---
title: "ConversationContextEntry"
domain: object-reference
topic: conversationcontextentry
apiVersion: 67.0
release: summer-26-v67
docType: developer-guide
lastCollected: 2026-03-12T09:35:07.406Z
estimatedTokens: 528
keywords: [ConversationContextEntry, context, message, event, chat, history, agent, messaging, user, API, version, 47.0, later, Calls, Special]
---

# ConversationContextEntry

> Represents the context of a message or an event in the chat history between an
      agent and a messaging user. This object is available in API version 47.0 and later.

# ConversationContextEntry

Represents the context of a message or an event in the chat history between an agent and a messaging user. This object is available in API version 47.0 and later.

## Supported Calls

create(), delete(), describeSObjects(), getDeleted(), getUpdated(), query(), retrieve(), search(), undelete(), update(), upsert()

## Special Access Rules

As of Summer ’20 and later, only authenticated internal and external users can access this object.

## Fields

| Field | Details |
| --- | --- |
| ConversationContextEntryName | TypestringPropertiesAutonumber, Defaulted on create, Filter, idLookup, SortDescriptionThe autogenerated number of the entry. |
| CustomDetailContextKey | TypetextareaPropertiesCreate, NillableDescriptionThe key or name of the pre-chat field specified by the admin in the pre-chat implementation, for example, customer_email. |
| CustomDetailContextValue | TypetextareaPropertiesCreate, NillableDescriptionThe value entered in the pre-chat field by a user before starting the chat. |
| ParentId | TypereferencePropertiesCreate, Filter, Group, SortDescriptionThe Conversation ID this entry is associated with. |

## Associated Objects

This object has the following associated objects. If the API version isn’t specified, they’re available in the same API versions as this object. Otherwise, they’re available in the specified API version and later.

[ConversationContextChangeEvent](atlas.en-us.object_reference.meta/object_reference/sforce_api_associated_objects_change_event.htm "A ChangeEvent object is available for each object that supports Change Data Capture. You can subscribe to a stream of change events using Change Data Capture to receive data tied to record changes in Salesforce. Changes include record creation, updates to an existing record, deletion of a record, and undeletion of a record. A change event isn’t a Salesforce object—it doesn’t support CRUD operations or queries. It’s included in the object reference so you can discover which Salesforce objects support change events.") (API version 62.0)

Change events are available for the object.

## Related Topics

- ConversationContextChangeEvent (atlas.en-us.object_reference.meta/object_reference/sforce_api_associated_objects_change_event.htm)
