---
title: "Fundraising Fields on Other Objects"
domain: edu-cloud-dev-guide
topic: fundraising-fields-on-other-objects
apiVersion: 67.0
release: summer-26-v67
docType: developer-guide
lastCollected: 2026-03-12T09:34:25.684Z
estimatedTokens: 383
keywords: [Fundraising, Objects, includes, Salesforce, orgs, Nonprofit, Cloud, Education, enabled]
---

# Fundraising Fields on Other Objects

> Fundraising includes fields that are available on other Salesforce objects. These fields
        are available only in orgs with Nonprofit Cloud or Education Cloud when Fundraising is
        enabled.

# Fundraising Fields on Other Objects

Fundraising includes fields that are available on other Salesforce objects. These fields are available only in orgs with Nonprofit Cloud or Education Cloud when Fundraising is enabled.

-   **[ContactPointAddress](atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_contactpointaddress.htm)**
    Represents a contact’s billing or shipping address, which is associated with an individual or a person account. This object is available in API version 61.0 and later.
-   **[ContactProfile](atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_contactprofile.htm)**
    Represents information about an individual, such as their ethnicity, citizenship, birth place, race, and so on. The Fundraising fields on this object are available in API version 59.0 and later.
-   **[ListEmail](atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_listemail.htm)**
    Represents a list email sent from Salesforce, or sent from Account Engagement and synced to Salesforce. When the list email is sent, the recipients are generated by combining recipients in the ListEmailIndividualRecipients and ListEmailRecipientSource objects. Duplicate and other invalid recipients are removed. The result is the recipients are sent any given list email. ListEmail has a one-to-many relationship with ListEmailRecipientSource and ListEmailIndividualRecipient objects. This object is available in API version 61.0 and later.

## Related Topics

- ContactPointAddress (atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_contactpointaddress.htm)
- ContactProfile (atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_contactprofile.htm)
- ListEmail (atlas.en-us.edu_cloud_dev_guide.meta/edu_cloud_dev_guide/npc_fundraising_api_objects_listemail.htm)
